1. After we get to 1.0, uplifting to Dev channel should be rare, uplifting to Beta channel should be extremely rare, hotfixes to release should be reserved for only chemspill type of situations.
2. All issues must be assigned a milestone.
To ensure this, add the [`no:milestone` search option when viewing open issues](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+no%3Amilestone).  `1.x milestone` for things that have not been prioritized for a release yet, but that we could see as possibly being prioritized in the near future.  `2.x milestone` for things that are further out.  Use a particular release milestone otherwise to target that release.
3. Issues that should be locked into a particular milestone without consultation to the person putting it there, should get the `release/blocking` label added to it.
4. We have weekly triage meetings to plan what will be in a particular milestone release.  All development work for a particular release should happen while that version is on master, and not while that version is on Dev channel, Beta channel, or Release channel.  Since we're on a time based schedule, nothing will be waiting very long anyway.
5. High level summaries should be maintained on this Roadmap wiki for at least everything up to and including the version which is on master: https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/wiki/Roadmap.
6. All issues that are completed in a milestone should be marked with a label indicating if QA is needed or not. A link like [this](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/search?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Releasable+builds+0.55.x%22++-label%3A%22QA%2FNo-QA-Needed%22+-label%3A%22QA%2FNeeded%22&unscoped_q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Releasable+builds+0.55.x%22++-label%3A%22QA%2FNo-QA-Needed%22+-label%3A%22QA%2FNeeded%22&type=Issues) will show the list of issues in a milestone with neither label.
